# Learn to write Manifests

## Exapmple 1 - Single Container Pod

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: my-container
      image: nginx:latest
  restartPolicy: Always
```

### Breaking Down

1. **`apiVersion`**: Specifies the version of the Kubernetes API that you want to use. In this case, it's `v1`.

2. **`kind`**: Defines the **type of Kubernetes object** you want to create. Here, it's a `Pod`.

3. **`metadata`**: Contains metadata about the Pod, such as its name.

   - `name`: The name of the Pod is set to "my-pod".

4. **`spec`**: Describes the **desired state** for the Pod.
   - **`containers`**: An array of containers within the Pod.
     - `name`: Specifies the name of the container, which is set to "my-container".
     - `image`: Specifies the container image to be used. In this case, it's the latest version of the Nginx image.
   - **`restartPolicy`**: Defines the restart policy for the Pod (**Always**, **OnFailure**, or **Never**), in this case, it means it will **Always** be restarted automatically if they exit for any reason.

---

## Exapmple 2 - Multi-Container Pods

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: enhanced-pod
  labels:
    app: my-app
    environment: development
  annotations:
    description: "A multi-container pod with Nginx and Busybox."
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx-container
      image: nginx:latest
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
    - name: busybox-container
      image: busybox:latest
      command:
        ["sh", "-c", "echo Hello from the second container! && sleep 3600"]
```

### Breaking Down what's new

1. **`labels`**: They are **just tags**, used for selecting Pods and no other meaning.

   - `app`: Set to "my-app".
   - `environment`: Set to "development".

2. **`annotations`**: Provides a **human-readable description** of the Pod, such as build information, release notes, etc.

   - `description`: A description of the Pod is provided.

3. **`spec`**: Describes the **desired state** for the Pod.

   - **`containers`**: An array of containers within the Pod.

     - `name`: Specifies the name of the first container as "nginx-container".
     - `image`: Specifies the container image for Nginx.
     - `ports`: Specifies that the container listens on port 80.

     - `name`: Specifies the name of the second container as "busybox-container".
     - `image`: Specifies the container image for Busybox.
     - `command`: Overrides the default command for the container, running a custom shell command.

---
