# Introduction to Helm - [Link](https://helm.sh/docs/)

### What is Helm?

- Helm is a **package manager** for Kubernetes applications.
- It simplifies and streamlines the deployment and management of Kubernetes applications by packaging them into **charts**.

Helm chart
: is a collection of pre-configured Kubernetes resources that can be easily deployed and managed as a single unit.

### **Why use Helm?**

- **Reusability:** Helm packages applications and dependencies into reusable **charts**, in a way that's easy to share and deploy.
- **Versioning:** Helm charts can be versioned, making it simple to track changes and upgrade or roll back applications.
- **Templating:** Helm uses **Go**(the programming language) templating to dynamically generate Kubernetes manifest files, enabling configuration flexibility without duplicating code.
- **Simplified Deployment:** Helm manages releases, making complex deployments in Kubernetes clusters easier to handle.

### **Comparison with native Kubernetes manifests:**

| Aspect                        | Native K8s Manifests                         | Helm Charts                                                           |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Configuration Type**        | Static YAML files                            | Higher abstraction with dynamic configuration using Go templating     |
| **Efficiency and Modularity** | Cumbersome for managing growing applications | Efficient application management, promoting modularity and code reuse |
| **Versioning**                | External versioning                          | Inherent versioning for easier change tracking and release management |

---

## Helm Architecture - [Link](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/architecture/)

### 1. **Purpose of Helm:**

- Manage Kubernetes packages (charts).
- Create new charts, package charts into archive files (tgz), and interact with chart repositories.
- Install/uninstall charts in Kubernetes clusters.
- Manage the release cycle of installed charts.

### 2. **Important Concepts in Helm:**

- **Chart:** Bundle of information to create a Kubernetes application instance.
- **Config:** Configuration info merged into a chart to create a releasable object.
- **Release:** Running instance of a chart with specific config.

### 3. **Components:**

#### 3.1 **Helm Client:**

- Command-line tool for end users.
- Manages local chart development, repositories, releases.
- Interfaces with Helm library for various operations.

#### 3.2 **Helm Library:**

- Provides logic for all Helm operations.
- Interfaces with Kubernetes API server.
- Combines chart and config to build a release.
- Installs, upgrades, and uninstalls charts in Kubernetes.
- Standalone library for use by different clients.

### 4. **Implementation:**

- Helm client and library are written in Go programming language.
- Library uses Kubernetes client library (REST+JSON) to communicate with Kubernetes.
- Information stored in Kubernetes Secrets, no separate database.
- Configuration files written in YAML when possible.

---
