# Helm Commands

### 1. `helm create`: Creating a new chart.

- **Creates a chart directory** along with the common files and directories used in a chart.

  ```bash
  helm create [CHART]
  ```

- **`[CHART]`:** Name you want to give to your helm chart.

- **Example:** This will create a directory named `mychart` containing the necessary files and directories, including `Chart.yaml`, `values.yaml`, and `templates/` directory.

  ```bash
  helm create mychart
  ```

### 2. `helm install`: Deploying a chart.

- Deploy a Helm chart onto a Kubernetes cluster, creating a new release.

  ```bash
  helm install [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] [flags]
  ```

  - **`RELEASE_NAME`:** This is the name you give to the specific release of the Helm chart. It's like a unique identifier for the deployment.
  - **`CHART`:** This is the path to the Helm chart directory or archive (`.tgz`) that you want to install.
  - **`flags`:** **Optional** flags that you can use to customize the installation. Some common flags include `--set` for setting values, `--namespace` for specifying the Kubernetes namespace, and others.

- **Example:** This command will deploy the Helm chart in the `./mychart` directory, creating a release named `myrelease`.

  ```bash
  helm install myrelease ./mychart
  ```

### 3. `helm upgrade`: Updating a release.

- It is used to update a deployed release with a new chart version or modified values.

  ```bash
  helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] [flags]
  ```

  - **`RELEASE_NAME`:** The name of the existing release that you want to upgrade.
  - **`CHART`:** The path to the new Helm chart directory or archive that you want to upgrade to.

- **Example:** This command will upgrade the existing release named `myrelease` to the new version of the Helm chart located in the `./newchart` directory. You can modify values, change the chart version, and use other flags during the upgrade process.

  ```bash
  helm upgrade myrelease ./newchart
  ```

### 4. `helm uninstall`: Removing a release.

- used to remove a Helm release and associated resources from the Kubernetes cluster.

  ```bash
  helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME] [flags]
  ```

  - **`RELEASE_NAME`:** The name of the release you want to uninstall.

- **Example:** This command will remove the Helm release named `myrelease` from the Kubernetes cluster, deleting the associated resources.

  ```bash
  helm uninstall myrelease
  ```

---

## Chart Structure - [Link](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/#the-chart-file-structure)

Inside of this directory, Helm will expect a structure that matches this:

```bash
wordpress/
  Chart.yaml          # A YAML file containing information about the chart
  LICENSE             # OPTIONAL: A plain text file containing the license for the chart
  README.md           # OPTIONAL: A human-readable README file
  values.yaml         # The default configuration values for this chart
  values.schema.json  # OPTIONAL: A JSON Schema for imposing a structure on the values.yaml file
  charts/             # A directory containing any charts upon which this chart depends.
  crds/               # Custom Resource Definitions
  templates/          # A directory of templates that, when combined with values,
                      # will generate valid Kubernetes manifest files.
  templates/NOTES.txt # OPTIONAL: A plain text file containing short usage notes
```

---
