# Chart Repositories

### Introduction to chart repositories:

A Helm chart repository is a collection of Helm charts packaged into a specific directory structure and served over an HTTP server. Helm uses repositories to organize, distribute, and manage charts.

### Browsing Helm Charts:

1.  **Visit the Artifact Hub Website:**

    - Go to [https://artifacthub.io/](https://artifacthub.io/).

2.  **Explore Helm Charts:**

    - Use the search bar to find specific Helm charts or browse through the available categories.
    - Click on a Helm chart to view details such as version history, maintainers, and dependencies.

### Using Helm CLI with Artifact Hub:

1.  **Add a Helm Repository:**

    - Use the `helm repo add` command to add the Artifact Hub repository. Replace `[REPO_NAME]` with a name you want to give to the repository.

    bashCopy code

    `helm repo add [REPO_NAME] https://artifacthub.io/[REPO_NAME]`

2.  **Search for Helm Charts:**

    - Use the `helm search repo` command to search for Helm charts in the added repository.

    bashCopy code

    `helm search repo [REPO_NAME]/[CHART_NAME]`

3.  **Install a Helm Chart:**

    - Use the `helm install` command to install a Helm chart from the added repository.

    bashCopy code

    `helm install [RELEASE_NAME] [REPO_NAME]/[CHART_NAME]`

4.  **Update Helm Repositories:**

    - Use the `helm repo update` command to ensure you have the latest information from the added repositories.

    bashCopy code

    `helm repo update`
