# Kubernetes Pods - [Link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)

### 1. What is a Pod?

Definition:
: A pod is a smallest and simplest unit in the Kubernetes object model and is the basic building block of a Kubernetes application.

Purpose:
: Provides a cohesive unit for <u>deploying and managing containers</u>.

Containers:
: - Pods can have one or more tightly coupled containers. (they are inside Pods)
: - Containers within the same pod can communicate over localhost.

### 2. Deploy containers using Kubernetes pods

##### Step-1. Create a Pod Definition File (YAML):

- Example (`pod-definition.yaml`):
  ```yaml
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Pod
  metadata:
    name: nginx
  spec:
    containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
          - containerPort: 80
  ```

##### Step-2. Apply the Pod Definition:

- Use the `kubectl apply` command to create the pod based on the YAML file.
- `-f` flag is the **"filename"**. It is used to specify the filename or URL containing the resource configuration that you want to apply.

  ```bash
  kubectl apply -f pod-definition.yaml
  ```

##### Step-3. Verify Pod Deployment:

- This will show the status of your pod, whether it's running, completed, or has an issue.

  ```bash
  kubectl get pods
  ```

---

##### View Pod Logs:

If needed, view the logs of your container for debugging.

```bash
kubectl logs mypod
```

Replace mypod with the actual name of your pod.

##### Interact with the Pod:

If your container runs a service, you can interact with it. For example, if it's a web server, you can expose the pod using `kubectl port-forward` or set up a service.

##### Update Pod Configuration:

If you need to make changes, update the pod definition file and reapply it.

```bash
kubectl apply -f pod-definition.yaml
```

##### Delete the Pod:

When you're done, delete the pod using kubectl delete.

```bash
kubectl delete pod mypod
```
