# Understand Kubeconfig File

BLOG - [About Kubeconfig file](https://devopscube.com/kubernetes-kubeconfig-file/)

## What is a Kubeconfig file?

- A **Kubeconfig** is a YAML file with all the Kubernetes cluster details, certificates, and secret tokens to authenticate the cluster.

- You might get this config file directly from the cluster administrator or from a cloud platform if you are using a managed Kubernetes cluster.

- When you use `kubectl`, it uses the information in the kubeconfig file to connect to the kubernetes cluster API.
- The default location of the Kubeconfig file is `$HOME/.kube/config`.

## Kubeconfig file - Example

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
  - cluster:
      certificate-authority-data: <base64 encoded certificate>
      server: https://cluster-api-endpoint
    name: my-cluster
contexts:
  - context:
      cluster: my-cluster
      user: my-user
    name: my-context
current-context: my-context
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
  - name: my-user
    user:
      client-certificate-data: <base64 encoded client certificate>
      client-key-data: <base64 encoded client key>
```

#### Explaination

1.  **Cluster Configuration**:

    - **Cluster Name**: A unique identifier for the cluster.
    - **Server**: The URL of the Kubernetes API server.
    - **Certificate Authority Data**: The Base64-encoded certificate authority (CA) data used to authenticate the server.

2.  **User Authentication**:

    - **User Name**: A name to identify the user.
    - **Client Certificate Data (Optional)**: Base64-encoded client certificate data for certificate-based authentication.
    - **Client Key Data (Optional)**: Base64-encoded client private key data for certificate-based authentication.
    - **Username and Password (Optional)**: Username and password for HTTP basic authentication.
    - **Token (Optional)**: Token for token-based authentication.
    - **AuthProvider Config (Optional)**: Configuration for other authentication providers like OAuth tokens or service account tokens.

3.  **Context Configuration**:

    - **Context Name**: A unique identifier for the context.
    - **Cluster**: The name of the cluster to use for this context.
    - **User**: The name of the user to use for this context.
    - **Namespace (Optional)**: The default namespace for `kubectl` operations when using this context.

4.  **Current Context**:

    - **Current Context**: The name of the context to use by default when no context is specified in `kubectl` commands.

#### Required fiels to connect to the K8s clusters

**The most required pieces of information in a Kubeconfig file, without which you cannot connect to Kubernetes clusters, are:**

1.  **Cluster Configuration**:

    - **Server**: URL of the Kubernetes API server.
    - **Certificate Authority Data**: CA certificate data for server authentication.
    - **Name (Optional)**: A unique identifier for the cluster within the configuration file.

2.  **User Authentication**:

    - **User Name**: A name to identify the user or service account.
    - **Authentication Method**: Choose one: **a** or **b**
      1. **Token-based Authentication**:
         - **Token**: A token for authentication.
      2. **Username and Password Authentication**:
         - **Username**: The username for authentication.
         - **Password**: The password for authentication.
    - **Credentials**: Client certificate data and key (if using certificate-based authentication), or token or username/password (depending on the chosen authentication method).

3.  **Context Configuration**:

    - **Context**: Ties cluster and user configurations together.
    - **Current Context**: Specifies the default cluster and user configuration.
